(Press ENTER to continue)
Welcome, new employee!
Since our previous chef quit due to a stressful work environment, I'm here to guide you through your first day.
Before you get started with your first day on the job, you're gonna have to know your way around the kitchen.
Use WASD or the arrow keys to move.
Good! If you wanna go faster, use SHIFT to sprint.
You can see your stamina bar in the bottom left. Your stamina replenishes faster while standing still.
Try picking up that tomato with SPACE.
If you want to drop whatever you're holding, simply press SPACE again.
The minimap in the bottom right shows all nearby ingredients, handy if you don't know where to look!
Check out that counter! Just walk up to it and press SPACE to open the recipe menu.
In this menu, you will see all the possible recipes you can make, and the ingredients you'll need to make them.
These recipes will change each day, and you don't have to make them all to progress, so choose whatever you like!
You can use the arrow buttons at the top of the menu to cycle through recipes, but for the sake of this tutorial you only have one recipe available.
To properly prepare a recipe, you'll need to have ingredients prepared. That's why we have this table!
Any ingredient you're holding will automatically be placed on the table when you touch it.
Pick up the tomato you dropped earlier and bring it to the table.
Good job! Now do the same for these other three ingredients.
Oh no, that fish is raw! But for this recipe you'll need a cooked fish...
No problem! Just press SPACE when standing next to the table, and click on the slot containing the raw fish to pick it back up.
Now bring it over to this stove and press SPACE to start cooking!
You can keep track of your stove in the top right corner.
Once something is done cooking, you'll have a limited amount of time it burns. So be quick! But we won't let it burn in this tutorial.
Once it's done, press SPACE again to take it off and bring it to the table.
Not all ingredients are cookable. If you ever wanna know which ingredients you can cook, hold down TAB.
Now that you have all the required ingredients, you can make your first recipe. Try it out!
Great job! You're a real chef-in-the-making! But there's still some more I have to teach you.
It's time to take out the trash!
We never used that tomato, and it's taking up space on our table.
Simply pick it up, carry it over to the trash can, and press SPACE.
When you throw away an ingredient, it gets deleted and a new ingredient gets spawned somewhere else. Recycling!
That number at the top is your shift timer. Don't worry, it's not counting down right now.
Once you get started for real, you'll have limited time to finish your recipes.
If you need to take a break, just press ESC to pause the game. But you better not slack off on the job!
If you ever forget any controls, all you have to do is hold down CTRL! (Get it?)
It seems you've got the basics down, which means you're well on your way to becoming a professional chef!
The amount of recipes you must finish will increase every day, but you'll also have more recipes to choose from.
You'll also get back a little bit of time for each ingredient you used when you finish a recipe.
So don't be discouraged from tackling complex recipes!
At the end of each day, you can unlock a handy skill to help you with gathering ingredients.
You'll find out more about those skills soon enough. I won't spoil the surprise!
That's all I can teach you for now.
Good luck!
(Press ENTER to start Day 1)
